---
layout: post
title:  "It's Okay"
author: soham
categories: [ quarantine, thoughts, lockdown ]
tags: [ thoughts ]
image: assets/images/integral.png
description: "Thoughts on 1 year in lockdown"
featured: true
hidden: false
---

It's been a while since this website has seen a new post and that speaks volumes about how lazy I have been. It has been 1 year since the lockdown was put into effect. Almost a year ago I started this blog to write about things I would do during the lockdown (which I thought would be eventful, well clearly not). I was hoping that a year later I would be able to write about each one of those goals that I achieved but that's not the case and I believe I’m not the only one.

In the beginning, like many others, I was highly motivated to do things that I wouldn't otherwise take out time for. That motivation was temporary, just like the *Dalgona Coffee* trend. I did plan on learning to play the guitar but I have barely been able to learn a single song. It's been months since I've touched it and I do feel guilty about it at times. Same story with meditation and exercise. My point being, most of the time, it's not possible to achieve goals to the fullest. Every single step in the right direction is still progress. Whether it's learning 2 new guitar chords or cooking a new dish. Each one of us is moving forward in some way or the other and that's what matters most. While the destination is important, it’s the journey that helps us gain the ability to get to the destination. Whether that journey is 1 big step or 100 small steps, in a matter of time, each one of us will reach where we want to with the right type of motivation. Even if things don’t work out as planned (like my plan to workout :p) there will always be another opportunity to capitalise on.

Now, to get some motivation let's look at some of the positives. I was lucky enough to get a chance to travel halfway across the world to have pani puri, and meet my family of course. IPL is starting off for the second time in 6 months. I got to watch a ton of tv shows on Netflix. Got a few sneakers. Made my first Instagram reel (not sure if that's positive but check it out).

The key here is to not go too hard on yourself. For someone who cannot go more than a couple of days without feeling productive, doing this has been very difficult. Especially when my Instagram and LinkedIn feed is filled with people posting their personal achievements. It took me a while to get this in my head, but I have finally realised that life isn’t all about accomplishments. Every single day will not be exciting so it is ok to take a break, decompress, and get your mind in the right place before starting out again. So don’t get disheartened if things don’t always go your way. *Apna Time Aayega*.
